---
layout: project
title: Explanations of Interrelations in Digitally Controlled Systems 
supervisor: koschke
cosupervisor1: falk
cosupervisor2: fraenzle
fellow: morovatian
---

Digitally controlled systems consist of software and hardware
components and, hence, are developed by interdisciplinary developer
teams. If the root cause for an unexpected behavior must be located,
more often than not, the interplay between those software and hardware
components needs to be understood. Likewise, if any of the components
needs to be changed (for improvement, addition of a new feature, or just fixing
a defect), the potential impact of those changes on other software or
hardware components needs to be assessed. The basis of any such
assessment is a thorough understanding of interrelations among the
involved software and hardware components. Generally, developers are
not aware of all interrelations simply because the system is too large
and full of low-level details. Specifically interdisciplinary
developer teams have difficulties, because software developers may not
have the necessary expertise for hardware and, vice versa, hardware
developers may not have the full insights into the details of the
software.

Interdisciplinary developer teams would benefit from automated program
analyses providing them complete and precise explanations of the
interrelations in digitally controlled systems at the right level of
abstraction. Automated program slicing identifies all statements in a
program relevant to compute a given variable at a particular location
in the program. Code summarization techniques can be used to generate
documentation or summaries for pieces of code. The PhD candidate will
combine program slicing and code summarization. She or he will apply
them to systems developed in hardware-description languages and
high-level programming languages to provide developers with all
necessary details at the right level of abstraction to understand a
system's behavior. 

<em>Desirable interests, background and expertise</em>:
code summarization, large language models, program analysis, program slicing. 
